 Unix began its life on a scavenged PDP-7 minicomputer, as a platform
 for the Space Travel game and a testbed for Thompson's ideas about operating system design.
 
 The utility programs that Thompson and Ritchie wrote to support hosting game
 development on the PDP-7 itself became the core of Unix. The original spelling was “UNICS”
 (UNiplexed Information and Computing Service).
 
 Unix was very close to being the first system under which a programmer could sit down
 directly at a machine and compose programs on the fly, exploring possibilities and testing while composing.
 
 The Unix tradition of lightweight development and informal methods also began at its beginning.
 While Multics[1] had been a large project with thousands of pages of technical specifications written before the hardware
 arrived, the first running Unix code was brainstormed by three people and implemented by Ken Thompson in two days
 on an obsolete machine that had been designed to be a graphics terminal for a ‘real’ computer.
 
 Unix's first real job, in 1971, was to support what would now be called word processing for the Bell Labs patent department;
 the first Unix application was the ancestor of the nroff(1) text formatter.
 This project justified the purchase of a PDP-11, a much more capable minicomputer.
 
 The original Unix operating system was written in assembler, and the applications in a mix of assembler
 and an interpreted language called B, which had the virtue that it was small enough to run on the PDP-7.
 But B was not powerful enough for systems programming, so Dennis Ritchie added data types and structures to it.
 The resulting C language evolved from B beginning in 1971; in 1973 Thompson and Ritchie finally
 succeeded in rewriting Unix in their new language.
 
 *1 (Multiplexed Information and Computing Service) fue uno de los primeros sistemas operativos de tiempo compartido y
    tuvo una gran influencia en el desarrollo de los posteriores sistemas operativos.
 *2 nroff (abreviación de "new roff" o "nuevo roff") es un programa de formateo de textos de Unix que produce una salida adecuada
    para el formato de impresoras y ventanas de terminales
  
  
