 Unix first run was on a PDP-7 minicomputer, as a platform for the Space Travel game and a testbed for Thompson's ideas
 about operating system design. The programs that Thompson and Ritchie wrote to support hosting game development
 on the PDP-7 itself became the core of Unix. The original spelling was 'UNICS' (UNiplexed Information and Computing Service).
 Unix was very close to be the first system on which a programmer could sit down in front a computer and start creating
 programs.
 
 From the beginning, Unix applied a lightweight development and informal methods. While Multics[1] had been written in thousands
 of pages with lots of technical words and specifications before using it on the hardware, the first Unix code was thought
 by three people and Ken Thompson, which was also the one who wrote it in just wo days on a obsolete machine designed to be
 the graphic terminal of a real computer.
 In 1971 was the first job for Unix, it was to support a very simple word processor at the Bell Laboratories. It can be considered
 the ancestor of the nroff[2] tool. Due to the success, the company decided to buy a PDP-11, which was more powerful, to continue
 with the development of more tools.
 
 Unix was at first written in assembler and its applications in a mix of assembler and a language called B (predecessor of C)
 which was small enough to run on the PDP-7. Workers on Bell Labs realised B was not enough powerful for systems programming
 so Dennis Ritchie decided to change it adding structures and data types to the language. The result was the language called C
 which was finished in 1971. In 1973, Ritchie and Thompson had rewritten their whole OS to C.
 
 In the following years, UNIX was starting to get known especially due to a report published in the Communications of the ACM
 magazine[3] in 1974. It defined UNIX as "a general-purpose, multi-user, interactive operating system" and it offered "a number of
 features seldom found even in larger operating systems", giving as an example "a hierarchical file system", "the abilty
 to initiate asynchronous processes", a "system command language selectable on a per-user basis"...
 The report focused on the nature and the implementation of the file system and the command interfaces.
 It also referred to the hardware on which UNIX ran, which only had 144 Kbytes of core memory where 42 were used by UNIX.
 
 As soon as people knew that this OS had the capability of doing the things written on the report, lots of
 entities (universitites, research laboratories...) wanted to try UNIX. The problem was that in 1958 a decree stated that
 AT&T (the parent company of Bell Labs.) had been forbidden from entering the computer business, so UNIX couldn't be turned
 into a product. And according to some terms of the decree, Bell Labs had to license their products to everyone who asked.
 That was the reason why UNIX started to expand out of the AT&T corporation.
 
 Although the OS was free, the problem was the price of the hardware to ran it which was not especially cheap (around 40.000$).
 All over the world UNIX surprised people which tried it and people also made amazing things with this OS.
 Douglas Comer (a computing sciences' professor at Purdue University) gave some examples of achievements some people got:
  - "At Yale University, students and computer scientists modified the UNIX shell".
  - At Purdue University some departments made changes that allowed UNIX to handle a larger number of users.
  - At Purdue they had also created one of the first UNIX computer networks.
 Probably the most important work was the one carried out in Berkeley campus of California University. In 1977 it was released
 the first BSD (Berkeley Software Distribution) from a lab in charge of a student called Bill Joy (in those days
 he was just a student, but 5 years after he would become one of the co-founders of Sun Microsystems). Due to this fact,
 Berkeley became the main university related with UNIX development.
 
 At 1979 UNIX released Version 7. This was the first approach to the current UNIX systems, so any programmer using
 UNIX nowadays could perfectly understand anything which was on the Version 7. Some years before this, UNIX had already
 expanded all over the world, it came as far away as Australia, where John Lions (a computer scientist) developed
 the first serious kernel documentation for the Version 6. It was a highly valued thing for hackers, so many copies
 of this documentation were stolen from his computer. Due to some copyright problems, this documentation was illegal
 on the U.S.
 
 Everything was going perfect[4] until 1980, when Microsoft decided to start selling a port of the AT&T UNIX version
 called XENIX[5]. Apart from that, that year was the most important for the UNIX history. Berkeley UNIX (BSD) was the chosen
 platform by DARPA[6] to renew the communication system known as ARPANET, because it was aging. The first option was DEC company
 (Digital Equipment Corporation) but they rejected it because DEC refused to make changes in their OS which was included
 with the machine VAX (the OS was called VMS).
 
 The renewing process was horrible before TCP/IP was finally released. UNIX tried unsuccesfully with Ethernet and UUCP[7],
 there were neither FTP nor Telnet... It was not easy to Dennis Ritchie to develop an open communication because his opinion
 was that computers should "encourage closed communication", that was completely opposite to ARPANETters opinion, which
 were starting to think that UNIX was not a good option. Finally, the development of Berkeley 4.2 version which included
 the TCP/IP hepled DARPA and AT&T to start sharing common opinons. It seemed that anything could go wrong.
 
 In 1981, IBM announces a deal with Microsoft to develop its new IBM-PC. According to that, Bill Gates (with IBM consent),
 bought the rights of QDOS[8] by 50.000$. Microsoft modified it and changed its name by MS-DOS, then Bill Gates asked IBM
 to allow Microsoft selling MS-DOS separately from the hardware. The later years, Bill Gates got multibillionaire without
 writting any line of code of the software he was selling. The fame of MS-DOS provoked XENIX to become obosolete, but Gates
 also monetized this problem by selling the rights of XENIX to SCO. Microsoft was starting to be a real competence for UNIX
 developers.
 
 In 1982 Sun Microsystems started up with the idea of creating a UNIX machine with built-in networking capacity. With the help
 of Berkeley and Stanford universities Sun was the best option to distribute UNIX to people. That year, C programming language
 was beginning to become the most used programming language. Five years later nobody was using assembler but C.
 
 In 1983 there was a fact that seemed not to be important but it meant the beginning of the end for UNIX. DEC cancelled the
 production of the PDP-10 succesor (Jupiter), this caused that VAX machines running UNIX became the most used Internet machines
 on those days, this was a small problem compared with the main one. As a consecuence of cancelling Jupiter, an MIT AI Lab's
 programmer started writing GNU[9], a complete free clone of UNIX. This year was a succes for Sun Microsystems, because AT&T
 lost again an antitrust case. This caused to broke up with Bell Labs, and as a consecuence the 1958 decree was not a problem
 anymore. Now that AT&T was able to use Unix as a product, they have decided to sell Unix System V as fast as they could.
 
 The after years were not as profitable as AT&T thought. Due to a hard policy regarding the source code-distribution, with
 the main objective of earning money, anyone who acquired a bootleg Unix tape would get demanded. Also contributions from
 universities began to decrease. Unix companies didn't realise that Microsoft was focusing on a more interesting market than
 minicomputers for engineers and developers, they were focusing on the personal computers. So when Sun Microsystems realised
 about that it was too late.
 The problems didn't end up there, the Unix community was divided: the supporters of BSD (programmers and technical people)
 versus the supporters of System V (people and companies more focused on business). This was called the First Unix Wars.
 
 In 1985, Intel launched its new chip (386) able to address 4 GB and also to run Unix without any problem, it was the first
 time an Intel processor was capable of that. That was also the year in which Richard Stallman emitted the GNU manifest about
 free-software. At the beginning people thought it was not a serious thing, but the same year, Stallman released the X system
 without any cost. Is important to say that it was also the year in which the division of Unix ended up. The result was an
 intersection of the BSD and the SVR3 (System V Release 3) using the POSIX[10] standard on their cores. 
 
 In 1986, Larry Wall[11] began working on Perl, the first open-source script language. It was also the year that IBM failed
 at rejecting the new 386 Intel chip choosing instead the less powerful 286. As a consequence, the release of their new PS/2
 machine was a complete failure. Compaq took advantage of this and released the first 386 machine which can be considered the
 first PC. Regarding to Stallman, there were some rumours pointing that GNU project could mate with 386 machines, producing
 cheap Unix workstations.
 
 The problems of the DEC company became obvious in 1988. That year its CEO Ken Thompson described Unix a 'snake oil' although
 their PDP-11s ran a variant of Unix. That was because DEC wanted the business to go to its proprietary VMS OS, but they couldn't
 beat Sun Microsystems and other vendors which offered more powerful low-cost workstations. 1988 was also the starting year of 
 the second phase of the Unix wars, this was caused because AT&T and Sun allied (they were known as Unix International) to become
 the most powerful Unix distributive companies, but this alliance were not good new for companies as IBM, DEC or HP (which
 formed the Open Source Foundation) to defeat Unix International.
 
 Every person related with Unix wished to forget the years from 1989 to 1993. Both Unix wars have weakened the Unix industry which
 couldn't do anything but see how Microsoft became the most important computing company of those days. Unix 1970s hackers started
 to get old and to lose their interest on Unix. Although the hardware was cheaper, Unix was still too expensive. People began
 to realise that IBM's mastery had finished but the Microsoft's one was just starting.
 
 William Jolitz, a computer scientist from Berkeley, started to create a port of BSD for a 386 in 1990, which could mean that Unix
 luck will change. But this project took more time than expected because Jolitz decided to destroy his work. It is not completely
 clear why he did this but the most known explanation says that Jolitz wanted to release his code as unencumbered source, but that
 idea was not the company's one which wanted to use a licensing model. It was finally release in 1992. A year before, a finnish
 student name Linus Torvald released the first version of the Linux system. His main motivation for creating this system was the
 high price of Sun's Unix for the universities.
 
 Two years later, the whole Unix world realised how important Linux and open-source BSD distribution were. A lawsuit from AT&T
 against BSDI[12] caused some Berkeley developers to change to Linux. The founders of the BSDI research laboratory was shutted
 down as a consecuence of the lawsuit, and also Linux posed as the first in the Unix OS ranking over BSD.
 
 From the beginning, Linux and BSD were contributing highly to the Internet. Both relied on the use of Larry Wall's patch, the
 use of the email and the Usenet. Also their popularity increased with the growing of the Internet Service Providers and
 with the creation of the World Wide Web (which increased the market of the PCs including the nontechnical users) on the
 early 90s.
 
 A result of the mass-marketing of the Internet, was the XFree86 which allowed Linux and BSD to use the GUI (a window-based system)
 they wanted. In 1993, Linux had a complete GNU toolkit and also access to the Internet and an X GUI, this allowed users
 to have powerful development tools. An interesting thing about Linux was that its kernel was officially a beta (0.99)
 and it was cash-free. The awaited dream of a 'cheap Unix system' had become real but it came from an unexpected way. Although
 Unix users which where dreaming about it were happy about that.
 
 Between 1992 and 2000, there were lots of transactions with the Unix system. First of all, the alliance between AT&T and Sun
 was broken and the Unix System Labs sold to Novell in 1993. In 1994 AT&T and Novell (which changed the standard on Unix to X/Open)
 ended up the Unix wars joining the Open Source Foundation. In 1995 SCO bought the rights to the original Unix sources from Novell
 and in 1996 OSF and X/Open joined into a single Unix standard. In 1998 IBM, Intel and SCO announced the Monterrey project in a 
 effort to merge into a big one all the Unix proprietaries. It was completed on 2000 when SCO sold  UnixWare to Caldera (a Linux
 distributor). This can be marked as the end of the Unix period.
 
 
 
 *1 (Multiplexed Information and Computing Service) was one of the first time-sharing operating systems and it
    had a great impact in the development of the following operating systems.
 *2 nroff (abbreviation of "new roff") text-formatting program from UNIX that returns a suitable output
    for the format of printers and terminal windows.
 *3 link: http://bit.ly/1NYCwjT  
 *4 At 1978, Santa Cruz Operation (SCO) was built as the first Unix company, and the first commercial C
    compiler (WhiteSmith) was sold that same year.
 *5 It was a UNIX based operating system developed by Microsoft from a early UNIX license bought to AT&T.
    They used that name because Microsoft wasn't able to use the UNIX name.
 *6 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency is an agency of the U.S. Department of Defense responsible for the
    development of emerging technologies for use by the military. This agency was in charge of using the ARPANET,
    which was the first approach to what nowadays we know as Internet.
 *7 UNIX-To-UNIX-Copy was a set of programs and protocols that allowed a computer to execute commands remotely, transfer
    files or send emails to other computer.
 *8 Quick and Dirty Operating Sytems was a 16 bits operating system written by Tim Patterson from SCO (Seattle Computer
    Products) based on CP/M (Control Program/Monitor). The name of the OS had to be changed by 86-DOS when the company
    started licensing.
 *9 GNU is a recursive acronym which means "GNU is Not Unix" and was the way its creator used to plead for the free software. 
    Although it means "GNU is Not Unix" the reality is that is a Unix based OS, but it's free.
*10 Portable Operating Sytem Interface is a family of standards to mantain the compatibility between Operating Systems.
    It defines the API.
*11 Larry Wall is widely known as the creator of Perl, but it also has created other interesting things as the 'patch'
    command, a very useful way of sharing files in a easier way. After graduating he accepted to work for the NASA Jet
    Propulsion Lab.
*12 Berkeley Software Design Inc. which developed and sold licenses for a variant of the BSD for compatible PC. This company
    was founded by some members Computer Systems Research Group, from the University of California.
